README.md, before:

# Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume

This repository contains the resume of Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan, generated using the [rendercv](https://rendercv.com/) Python library.

## Overview

This resume is created from a YAML data file and rendered into various formats (PDF, HTML, Markdown) using `rendercv`. The primary source of the resume data is [Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml](Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml).

## Repository Structure

The repository is structured as follows:

* `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml`: Contains all the data for the resume, including personal information, work experience, education, and skills.
* `rendercv_output/`: This directory contains the generated resume in different formats:
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.pdf`: The resume in PDF format.
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.html`: The resume in HTML format.
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.md`: The resume in Markdown format.
* `markdown/`: This directory contains the Jinja2 templates used by `rendercv` to generate the Markdown output.
* `README.md`: The current file, providing an overview of the repository.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

* **Install `rendercv`:**

    ```bash
    pip install rendercv
    ```

### Rendering the Resume

To generate the resume in all specified formats, run the following command:

```bash
rendercv Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml
```

This command will use the data in `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml` and the templates in the `markdown/` directory to create the files in the `rendercv_output/` directory.

## Rendered Resume

For quick reference, here is the rendered resume:

**Page 1**

![Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume - Page 1](rendercv_output/Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV_1.png)

**Page 2**

![Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume - Page 2](rendercv_output/Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV_2.png)

## Additional Information

* The resume is generated using the "moderncv" theme in `rendercv`.
* The design and layout can be customized by modifying the `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml` file or by adjusting the Jinja2 templates in the `markdown/` directory.

Commit message:

Update README to include virtual environment setup and instructions for initializing a new resume

README.md, after:

# Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume

This repository contains the resume of Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan, generated using the [rendercv](https://rendercv.com/) Python library.

## Overview

This resume is created from a YAML data file and rendered into various formats (PDF, HTML, Markdown) using `rendercv`. The primary source of the resume data is [Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml](Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml).

## Repository Structure

The repository is structured as follows:

* `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml`: Contains all the data for the resume, including personal information, work experience, education, and skills.
* `rendercv_output/`: This directory contains the generated resume in different formats:
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.pdf`: The resume in PDF format.
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.html`: The resume in HTML format.
    * `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.md`: The resume in Markdown format.
* `markdown/`: This directory contains the Jinja2 templates used by `rendercv` to generate the Markdown output.
* `README.md`: The current file, providing an overview of the repository.

## Usage

### Prerequisites

* **Set up a virtual environment (recommended):**

    ```bash
    python3 -m venv .venv  # Create a virtual environment
    source .venv/bin/activate  # Activate the virtual environment (Linux/macOS)
    .venv\Scripts\activate  # Activate the virtual environment (Windows)
    ```

* **Install `rendercv`:**

    ```bash
    pip install rendercv
    ```
### Initializing a New Resume

To start a new resume using `rendercv`, you can use the following command:

```bash
rendercv new "Your Name" --theme moderncv
```

Replace `"Your Name"` with your actual name. The `--theme moderncv` option specifies the theme to use for the resume.

### Rendering the Resume

To generate the resume in all specified formats, run the following command:

```bash
rendercv Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml
```

This command will use the data in `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml` and the templates in the `markdown/` directory to create the files in the `rendercv_output/` directory.

## Rendered Resume

For quick reference, here is the rendered resume:

**Page 1**

![Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume - Page 1](rendercv_output/Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV_1.png)

**Page 2**

![Ravi Ramakrishnan Athmanathan's Resume - Page 2](rendercv_output/Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV_2.png)

## Additional Information

* The resume is generated using the "moderncv" theme in `rendercv`.
* The design and layout can be customized by modifying the `Ravi_Ramakrishnan_Athmanathan_CV.yaml` file or by adjusting the Jinja2 templates in the `markdown/` directory.
